docs: using AsyncAPI with Kafka using Avro (#2329)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro.md

---

> title: Create AsyncAPI Document for applications interacting with Kafka using Avro Schema

Reviewer: first tutorial is about creating AsyncAPI document

this one is more about modifying it to use Avro

```suggestion
title: Describe Kafka message payload using Avro Schema
```

?

weight: 30
---

## Introduction

The previous tutorial taught you about writing an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the default schema. This turorial will teach you to write the same document using Avro Schema.

While AsyncAPI schemas can be the default choice for describing payloads, many prefer using Avro Schemas to define messages in Kafka. Through this tutorial you'll learn to modify your existing AsyncAPI schema to add Avro schema into your document in both YAML and JSON formats.

## Background Context

AsyncAPI is a specification for describing Event-Driven Architectures (EDAs) in a machine-readable format. It allows developers to define how messages are exchanged between different services by providing a agreement for communication.

Avro is an efficient binary serialization format, used to ensure schema-aware communications between the messages within Apache Kafka. With Avro Schema there is a standardized method for serializing data allowing for interoperability and schema evolution capabilities. Avro promotes data exchange among systems by offering a common schema that fosters compatibility, between different components. 

> ## Defining messages using Avro Schema in YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Defining message payload with Avro Schema directly in AsyncAPI document
```

> In this section, let's focus on defining messages using Avro Schemas using YAML. 

Reviewer: since this tutorial is continuation of the previous one you wrote, you should like to it + kinda explain that in previous tutorial you explained how to use kafka with asyncapi but that it was done using default AsyncAPI features, so for schema AsyncAPI Schema (superset of JSON Schema) was used and that here you rework schemas. I think would be good to show asyncapi file from previous tutorial, at least part with schemas

Author: I have added a reference to the previous tutorial in the Introduction. Also, your suggestion about adding the message schema from the previous tutorial sounds good, I'll add it right away.

By combining the Avro Schema discussed above into the previous tutorial, you'll have a AsyncAPI document fully equipped with Avro Schema!

```
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          type: record
          name: UserSignedUp
          namespace: com.company
          doc: User sign-up information
          fields:
            - name: user-id
              type: int
            - name: user-email
              type: string
```

> ## Defining messages using Avro Schema in JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reuse existing Avro Schemas
```

Please modify this section so it sounds like part of story that "when you start using AsyncAPI with existing kafka infra, then you already have existing avro schemas that you just want to reuse from file"

## Defining message payload with Avro Schema directly in the AsyncAPI document

Defining message schemas with the default schema is already covered in the [previous tutorial](https://deploy-preview-2252--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/kafka). The default choice was the AsyncAPI schemas which is a superset of JSON Schema that looked as follows, 

```
messages:
  userSignedUp:
    payload:
      type: object
      properties:
        user-id:
          type: integer
          description: This property describes the id of the user
        user-email:
          type: string
          description: This property describes the id of the user
```

In this section, let's shift our focus to defining messages using Avro Schemas directly within our document. 

```
messages:
  userSignedUp:
    payload:
      schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
      schema:
        type: record
        name: UserSignedUp
        namespace: com.company
        doc: User sign-up information
        fields:
          - name: user-id
            type: int
          - name: user-email
            type: string
```

> In the above snippet: 
> - The `userSignedUp` message is defined with Avro Schema, using the specified `schemaFormat` and the `schema`.
> - The `schema` includes a `record` named `UserSignedUp` within the `com.company` namespace. It also describes two fields, `user-id` and `user-email`, defining their data types as `int` and `string` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above snippet: 
- The `userSignedUp` message is defined with Avro Schema, using the specified `schemaFormat` and the `schema`.
- Use the `schemaFormat` to specify using a MIME type, that you use Avro and what version of Avro Schema.
- The `schema` includes a `record` named `UserSignedUp` within the `com.company` namespace. It also describes two fields, `user-id` and `user-email`, defining their data types as `int` and `string` respectively.
```

---
title: Describe Kafka message payload using Avro Schema

> description: Explore configuring AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages with Avro Schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Explore configuring an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages with Avro Schema.
```

> weight: 30

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
weight: 230
```

---

## Introduction

> The [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka) taught you about writing an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the default schema. This tutorial will teach you to write the same document using Avro Schema.

Reviewer 2: Please improve the anchor text by actually writing the **title of that previous tutorial** 😸

Author: Done! thanks for pointing it out

> The [previous tutorial](https://deploy-preview-2252--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/kafka) taught you about writing an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the default schema. This tutorial will teach you to write the same document using Avro Schema.

Reviewer: remember `https://deploy-preview-2252--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/kafka` should change to `/docs/tutorials/kafka` before merging

same with other links to the same resource

> The tutorial on [creating an AsyncAPI document for applications consuming from Kafka](/docs/tutorials/kafka) taught you about writing an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the default schema. This tutorial will teach you to write the same document using Avro Schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The previous tutorial on [creating an AsyncAPI document for applications consuming from Kafka](/docs/tutorials/kafka) taught you about writing an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the default schema. This tutorial will teach you to write the same document using Avro Schema.
```

Still good to clarify you're referring to the **previous** tutorial 😸

> While AsyncAPI schemas can be the default choice for describing payloads, many prefer using Avro Schemas to define messages in Kafka. Through this tutorial, you'll learn to modify your existing AsyncAPI schema to add Avro schema into your document in both YAML and JSON formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While AsyncAPI schema can be the default choice for describing payloads, many prefer using Avro Schemas to define messages in Kafka. Through this tutorial, you'll learn to modify your existing AsyncAPI schema to add Avro schema into your document in both YAML and JSON formats.
```

> While AsyncAPI schema can be the default choice for describing payloads, many prefer using Avro Schemas to define messages in Kafka. Through this tutorial, you'll learn to modify your existing AsyncAPI schema to add Avro schema into your document in both YAML and JSON formats.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While AsyncAPI schema can be the default choice for describing payloads, many prefer using Avro Schemas to define messages in Kafka. This tutorial teaches you to modify your existing AsyncAPI schema to add Avro schema into your document in both YAML and JSON formats.
```

> ## Background Context

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Background context
```

> [AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/) is a specification for describing Event-Driven Architectures (EDAs) in a machine-readable format. It allows developers to define how messages are exchanged between different services by providing an agreement for communication.

Reviewer: at this stage, do we really need to intro asyncapi here?

Author: @derberg This is what we discussed in the [slack threads](https://asyncapi.slack.com/archives/C02QY9FMM18/p1700165009535719?thread_ts=1700080953.842879&cid=C02QY9FMM18), should I remove it?

Reviewer: I do not see in linked thread a discussion that inside kafka tutorial you should provide background on what AsyncAPI is

Author: ![IMG_20240117_195510](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/assets/52382282/daa30e90-89cd-4fb8-95bd-8a8e99e38452)

This one ☝️

Reviewer 2: @J0SAL That screenshot you added says ...

> "...Define `AsyncAPI schema` and `Avro schema`. 

You did not define what we requested, as we requested you to define AsyncAPI schema vs Avro schema. You defined AsyncAPI instead.

Please fix this section accordingly 😸

Author: Just realized my mistake, thankyou. I'll update it accordingly

> [AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/) is a specification for describing Event-Driven Architectures (EDAs) in a machine-readable format. AsyncAPI schema outlines the format and content specifications that enable a consistent representation of agreements for communication between services in an Event-Driven Architecture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI is a specification for describing Event-Driven Architectures (EDAs) in a machine-readable format. AsyncAPI schema outlines the format and content specifications that enable a consistent representation of agreements for communication between services in an Event-Driven Architecture.
```

> [Avro](https://avro.apache.org/), on the other hand is an efficient binary serialization format, used to ensure schema-aware communications between the messages within Apache Kafka. With Avro Schema there is a standardized method for serializing data allowing for interoperability and schema evolution capabilities. Avro promotes data exchange among systems by offering a common schema that fosters compatibility, between different components. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Avro](https://avro.apache.org/) is a sophisticated tool in Apache Kafka that handles data communication efficiently. It provides a standardized method for organizing and transmitting data, ensuring that different parts of the system can understand each other effectively. With Avro, there's a common language for messages, promoting compatibility and smooth operation between various components. It's like having a shared rulebook that helps different system parts communicate and exchange information seamlessly.
```

> ## Defining message payload with Avro Schema directly in the AsyncAPI document

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Define message payload with Avro Schema directly in AsyncAPI document
```

> Defining message schema with the default schema is already covered in the [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka). The default choice was the AsyncAPI schemas which is a superset of JSON Schema that looked as follows, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defining message schema with the default schema is already covered in the [previous Kafka tutorial](/docs/tutorials/Kafka). The default choice was the AsyncAPI schema, a JSON Schema superset. Here's an example of what the AsyncAPI schema looks like: 
```

```
messages:
  userSignedUp:
    payload:
      type: object
      properties:
        userId:
          type: integer
          description: This property describes the ID of the user
        userEmail:
          type: string
          description: This property describes the email of the user
```

> In this section, let's shift our focus to defining messages using Avro Schemas directly within our document. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now it's time to shift your focus to defining messages using Avro Schemas directly within your document. 
```

```
messages:
  userSignedUp:
    payload:
      schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
      schema:
        type: record
        name: UserSignedUp
        namespace: com.company
        doc: User sign-up information
        fields:
          - name: userId
            type: int
          - name: userEmail
            type: string
```

> In the above snippet: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above code snippet: 
```

> - The `userSignedUp` message is defined with Avro Schema, using the specified `schemaFormat` and the `schema`.
> - Use the `schemaFormat` to specify using a MIME type, that you use Avro and what version of Avro Schema.
> - The `schema` includes a `record` named `UserSignedUp` within the `com.company` namespace. It also describes two fields, `userId` and `userEmail`, defining their data types as `int` and `string` respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `userSignedUp` message is defined with Avro Schema, using the specified `schemaFormat` and the `schema`.
- Use the `schemaFormat` to indicate that you're using Avro and specify the version of Avro Schema by using a MIME type.
- The `schema` includes a `record` named `UserSignedUp` within the `com.company` namespace. It also describes two fields, `userId` and `userEmail,` defining their data types as `int` and `string`, respectively.
```

By combining the Avro Schema discussed above into the previous tutorial, you'll have an AsyncAPI document fully equipped with Avro Schema!

> ```

Reviewer: please always test documents you share in docs with studio.asyncapi.com to make sure they actually work

this is valid document

```
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          type: record
          name: UserSignedUp
          namespace: com.company
          doc: User sign-up information
          fields:
            - name: userId
              type: int
            - name: userEmail
              type: string
```

please also look at https://asyncapi.slack.com/archives/CQVJXFNQL/p1704890017575799

so in this and probably best also in the other PR, update `user-id` and user-email` to `userId` and `userEmail` - even in AsyncAPI schema to be consistent and not cause confusion

> By combining the Avro Schema discussed above into the previous tutorial, you'll have an AsyncAPI document fully equipped with Avro Schema!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's combine the above Avro Schema with the AsyncAPI document that you created in the previous tutorial. Check out below what an AsyncAPI document fully equipped with Avro Schema looks like!
```

asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          type: record
          name: UserSignedUp
          namespace: com.company
          doc: User sign-up information
          fields:
            - name: userId
              type: int
            - name: userEmail
              type: string
```

## Reusing existing Avro Schemas

> Occasionally you might find yourself with a set of existing Avro Schemas. In such cases, instead of defining these schemas again anew in your AsyncAPI document, you can integrate them seamlessly by calling out existing files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Occasionally, you might find yourself with an existing set of Avro Schemas. In such cases, instead of repeatedly defining these schemas in your AsyncAPI document, integrate them seamlessly by calling out existing files.
```

    { "name": "userEmail", "type": "string" }
  ]
}
```

To seamlessly incorporate this existing Avro schema into your AsyncAPI document, you can use the `$ref` property to reference the path to the JSON file. This way, your AsyncAPI document will incorporate the Avro Schema from the external JSON file, ensuring consistency and interoperability in your Kafka ecosystem. 

```
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: './userSchema.json'
```

## Summary

> Through this tutorial, you have smoothly progressed from the default schema to utilizing the capabilities of Avro Schema. The use of Avro Schema with AsyncAPI ensures improved interoperability and schema-aware communication in event-driven systems.  Now, you can further experiment by incorporating your business logic and experimenting with more advanced capabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you smoothly updated from the default schema to utilize the capabilities of Avro Schema. The use of Avro Schema with AsyncAPI ensures improved communication in event-driven systems.  Now, you can further experiment by incorporating your business logic and experimenting with more advanced capabilities.
```

## Next Steps

> Now you know how to write an AsyncAPI document using Avro Schemas. Let's now proceed to learn to how use [Schema Registry with AsyncAPI](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you know how to write an AsyncAPI document using Avro Schemas, let's learn how to use [Schema Registry with AsyncAPI](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry). 
```
